The MailWall-II database is a simple sqlite database used both by the forwarder and the smtpd part of the mailwall.
This document gives a description of the tables in this database.

system:          The system table contains some basic information on the systems on the local network that the smtpd process
                 communicates with. The IP of machines on this local network are composed as follows:

                   $CONF[basenet].<net>.<ip>

                 So if the basenet is defined as "192.168", than for an IP 192.168.1.56 the net value will be 1 and the ip value 56.

                 Next to the IP adress of the system, the system table contains two flags, 'promesq' and 'trojanized'. The first flag
                 when set defines that each and every user defined may use this system to send e-mails from. The second flag
                 when set defines that a flood protect mechanism has been triggered, and the system is most likely trojanized.

person:          The person table defines individuals. An individual is defined by a unique unixname. Next to the unixname field, 
                 a name field is defined for administration purposes only. There is a flag 'roaming' defined in the person table
                 that when set defines that this user is allowed to send e-mail from any defined system on the network.

systemuser:      The systemuser table defines explicitly what user can use what system to send e-mail from. It is a simple
                 coupling table, coupling a single systems to a single persons one at a time, thus allowing that (non roaming) 
                 person to send  e-mail from that (non promisquous) system explicitly.

address:         The address table defines all the e-mail addresses used by persons on the network. An address has the form 
        
                   <username>@<domain>

                 Next to the username and domain fields, an address record also has two flags. The 'list' flag defines that the
                 e-mail address is not private to a single user, but is the address of a mailinglist. The flag 'shared' defines
                 that this mailinglist address is usable by all of its members as "From" address.

addressuser:     The addressuser table defines what person user what e-mail address. This table is a simple coupling table,
                 coupling a person to an e-mail address one at a time. There are multiple possibilities, defined by the flags
                 of the address that determine how this table is used for that address. If an address has its 'list' flag set
                 to false, than the addressuser record implies that the user is the sole owner of the given address. If the
                 flag is set to true, than the user is simply a member of the mailinglist. If next to this the 'shared' flag
                 of the address is set to true, than the user is allowed to use the mailinglist address as if it was its personal
                 address.

peer:            The peer table defines confirmed and unconfirmed non local target adresses. Like in the address table, the
                 addresses are defined as:

                    <username>@<domain>

                 Next to username and domain, a peer record has an owner field that references the person that first introduced
                 the peer to the system. It has a creationtime field that defines when the peer address was first introduced.
                 Finaly it has a flag 'confirmed'. This flag will initially be set to false, until a user explicitly confirms
                 the peer, at what time auto traversel of mail to this peer of non suspect messages will be allowed by the system.

eventlog:        The eventlog table contains event strings (event) and timestamps (eventtime) of important recent events. If
                 during the event a system and/or user were defined, these are recorded in system_id and person_id.

messagequeue:    The messageque table contains all the queues of unsend messages. The 'queuename' field defines the queue that
                 the message resides in.  Each message created gets an unique id (msgid) , and an unique storage location
                 (fspath), but there may be multiple records for a message with a different 'recipient'.  On creation of a
                 record in the massagequeue, the 'creationtime' is stored. The system that the message was received from and
                 the person who send it are stored in the system_id field referencing the system table, and in the person_id
                 field referencing the person table.  
